Add scripts and readmes (#2)
greenelab/sophie: new_model_unseen_template/README.md

Here we train a new VAE model. Then simulate a background dataset using a template experiment that is **not included** in the training dataset (i.e. the datasets used to train the VAE model).

## Usage
1. Create a configuration and metadata files for your analysis. 

> See [example configuration file]().

Reviewer: missing link

When editing this configuration file, use a text editor instead of excel.

The definition for each paramter in the configuation file is describe below:

> Parameters for input data files and directories to create

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Parameters for input data files supplied by the user, directories that sophie will create, and parameters that control the execution behavior of sophie.
```

| Name | Description |
| :--- | :---------- |
| base_dir| str: Root directory containing analysis subdirectories. By default the path is one level up from where the scripts are run.|
| local_dir| str: Parent directory on local machine to store intermediate results. Make sure to end path name with "/"|
| dataset_name| str: Name for analysis directory, which contains the notebooks being run. For example, this analysis directory is named "new_model_unseen_template".|
| raw_template_filename | str: Downloaded template gene expression data file. The input dataset should be a matrix that is sample x gene. The file should tab-delimited. The gene ids should be HGNC symbols (if using human data) or PA numbers (if using *P. aeruginosa* data). The input dataset should be generated using the same platform as the model you plan to use (i.e. RNA-seq or array). The expression values are expected to have been uniformly processed and can be estimated counts (RNA-seq) or log2 expression (array).|

> | raw_compendium_filename | str: Downloaded compendium gene expression data file. The input dataset should be a matrix that is sample x gene. The file should tab-delimited. The gene ids should be HGNC symbols (if using human data) or PA numbers (if using *P. aeruginosa* data). The input dataset should be generated using the same platform as the model you plan to use (i.e. RNA-seq or array). The expression values are expected to have been uniformly processed and can be estimated counts (RNA-seq) or log2 expression (array).|

Reviewer: This isn't necessarily true, right? Sophie should work on any compendium, whether it's PA or Human or any organism? The only specification should be that the genes are the same in the compendium file as they are in the gene expression template experiment file?

Author: Yes you're correct. I'll remove this text

| project_id | str:  The experiment id to use as template experiment. This experiment is **not contained** within the training dataset that was used to train the VAE. The id is used to name intermediate simulated data files created.|

> | num_simulated| int: The number of experiments to simulate. Experiments are simulated by shifting the template experiment in the latent space.|

Reviewer: Is there a good default for this? or can you make suggestions so the users knows a reasonable number for this? I think casey mentioned that the num_simulated will change the magnitude of the output z scores right? so this should at least be consistent between different runs of sophie if the user wanted compare between them?

| scaler_filename | str: The location where the scaler file is stored. This file was generated during the VAE training process.|
| DE_method| str: "limma" or "DESeq". Differential expression method to use.|
| NN_architecture | str: Name of neural network architecture to use. Format 'NN_<intermediate layer>_<latent layer>'|
| learning_rate| float: Step size used for gradient descent. In other words, it's how quickly the  methods is learning|
| batch_size | str: Training is performed in batches. So this determines the number of samples to consider at a given time|
| epochs | int: Number of times to train over the entire input dataset|
| kappa | float: How fast to linearly ramp up KL loss|
| intermediate_dim| int: Size of the hidden layer|
| latent_dim | int: Size of the bottleneck layer|
| epsilon_std | float: Standard deviation of Normal distribution to sample latent space|
| validation_frac | float: Fraction of samples to use for validation in VAE training|

Parameters for intermediate files created. Names of files need to be specified:

> *Note: These file paths need to be created for the user in order to be used.*

Reviewer: same as above

| Name | Description |
| :--- | :---------- |
| scaler_filename | str: The location where the scaler file is stored. This file was generated during the VAE training process.|
| normalized_compendium_filename | str: Normalized compendium gene expression data filename.| 
| normalized_template_filename | str: Normalized template gene expression data filename. The template experiment is normalized using the same scaler transform that was used to 0-1 scale the normalized compendium used to train the VAE (scaler_filename).|

2. Create metadata files that specify how samples within the selected template experiment should be grouped for the differential expression analysis. 

> An example can be seen [here]()

Reviewer: missing link
